# Introduction to freeplane.py
## Blog mode
### Purpose
I'm looking for a Markdown writer for some time. And before that I've been using Mindmap tool (Freemind/Freeplane) to write my presentations and papers for 3 years, because I find Mindmapping tool very good to write outlines and track progress. Although at last I have to copy and paste the text from Mindmap into Word, and do the format. Obviously "why don't put them together".
Although Freeplane support HTML very well, still I want to write plain text Markdown. It gave me much better flexibility afterwards. I can use Pandoc to convert Markdown into Word doc, Presentations. And I can use Pelican to generate static personal website.
This script is written in Python, which is the only scripting language I know of except for Tcl.
### How-to
#### Plain text to Markdown
Write Markdown in Freeplane node core and note. The script will remove HTML format and write plain text to Markdown files. So what you wrote in Freeplane will be what you got in Markdown file, as plain text. For example, if you want to get a list, please write these in Freeplane node core or note.
~~~
1. First
2. Second
    - This
    - That
~~~
And you will get:
1. First
2. Second
    - This
    - That
#### Format Style in Freeplane
Take advantage of Freeplane's "format style" to apply different meaning to nodes. And these styles are defined in special node "blog mode setting". So you can customize the "format style" for pre-defined meaning. I got this idea from Freemind|GTD plugin. Be aware of that, the settings are case insensitive.
##### Articles and directories
When the script run into a node matches "article" style, a Markdown file will be created, and its all sub nodes will be recognized as this article's content. This special node's attribute will be treated as meta-data of the Markdown file.
And the attributes of the "article" node in blog mode setting will be treated as default value for every generated Markdown files. Necessary meta-data would be "authors", "tag", "date", "modified". Other meta-data, such as "slug", "title", will be generated automatically.
Articles are grouped by directories defined as "Directory" keyword in "blog mode settings". The script expects "article" nodes to be children nodes of "directory" node. And the name of the directory will be treated as default value of "Category" of its children article.
##### Levels of chapter hierarchy
There are 5 levels of chapter hierarchy, following LaTeX, could be defined. Section, Subsection, Subsubsection, Paragraph, Subparagraph.
##### Special nodes
- link
A node that has a link and this core text matches the target's file name most likely pointing to a image file that need to be inserted. The script will change the relative file path according to the result Markdown file's location. So to insert a image, just copy it in File Explorer and paste it into Freeplane.
- code
A node marked as "code" style will be generated as a block of code.
- comment
A node marked as "comment" style will be ignored, as well as all of its children nodes. Also node details will be also treated as comment and ignored. Comment could be useful for keeping writing notes or temporarily block some part of your article.
- skip
A node marked as "skip" style will be skipped, but its children nodes will be kept. This is useful for define writing plan.
** NOTICE ** each types of special nodes could be defined multiple times for flexibility.
### Example
This article is generated by freeplane.py/blog-mode. Its Mindmap actually looks like this:
[capture of freeplane.py.jpg](sample-markdown-from-freeplane.py.mm/introduction-to-freeplane.py/capture_of_freeplane.py.jpg)
The source Markdown file is here:
[introduction-to-freeplane.py.md](sample-markdown-from-freeplane.py.mm/introduction-to-freeplane.py/introduction-to-freeplane.py.md)

